---
layout: post
title:  "Kalamazoo 2018"
date:   2018-05-11 12:00:00 -0400
categories: conference
---

Today the Great Lakes Adiban hosted two panels at the [2018 International Congress on Medieval Studies](http://www.wmich.edu/medievalcongress/), in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The following papers were presented:

## 253. Jahānsāzi: Text, Space, and Place in Medieval Islamicate Literary Worlds (SCHNEIDER 1345)

- **The “Char-takht” of Husayn Abivardi**: Theodore Beers, Univ. of Chicago
- **Learning to Be Sufi, Writing to Make History: Malfuzat in the Chishti Context**: Manpreet Kaur, Columbia Univ.
- **Distant and Imagined Lands of Fiction**: N. Ipek Huner-Cora, Univ. of Chicago
- **Dangerous Authenticity: What It Means to Be from the Iranian “Otherworld”**: Samuel Lasman, Univ. of Chicago

## 310. Jinn, Dragons, and Divs: Supernatural Beings in Medieval Islamicate Literatures (SCHNEIDER 1345)

- **The Monstrous in Medieval Arab versus Medieval Western Writings**: Sally Abed, Alexandria Univ.
- **Repenting of Poetry: Al-Farazdaq’s Notice to the Devil**: Kevin Blankinship, Univ. of Utah
- **Devil the Divine: The Sainthood of Iblis in Persian Mysticism and Its Portrayal in Medieval Perso-Islamic Paintings**: Abolfazl Moshiri, Univ. of Toronto
- **Dragon-Spawn, Elephant-Men, and the Quiddity of Evil in Persian Epic**: Cameron Cross, Univ. of Michigan--Ann Arbor

After the two panels, we met to discuss our upcoming projects: the GLAS workshop to be held in September 2018, and potential themes for our ICMS 2019 panels. We'll be posting further details and calls for papers for these two events in the upcoming month or so. Thanks and congrats to all for a great time at Kalamazoo!