---
layout: post
title:  "CfP: GLAS Workshop 2018"
date:   2018-06-15 12:00:00 -0400
categories: [workshop, cfp]
---

The [Great Lakes Adiban Society (GLAS)](https://greatlakesadiban.github.io/) invites submissions for its second annual workshop, scheduled to take place at the University of Chicago, October 6--7, 2018. We particularly welcome papers that are works in progress and would benefit from extensive discussion and feedback.

The Society hopes to provide a regional forum for scholars of Islamicate *adab*, particularly of the medieval and early modern periods, to meet and share their work. We leave our parameters intentionally broad in order to invite as wide a collaboration as can be useful, but we are basically engaged with the literatures of the broad complex of premodern Muslim societies from the Danube to the Deccan. This naturally includes the major Islamicate languages of Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and Urdu, as well as others (Armenian, Georgian, Hebrew, Spanish, etc.) that participate in similar literary conventions. We welcome and encourage scholars working in any of these languages to consider participating!

Those who wish to participate in the workshop should fill out our [online application](https://goo.gl/forms/VcFedoP3CDibSXNW2) by **August 15, 2018**. Please note that each accepted paper will be given 45 minutes for presentation and discussion; because of this, we have limited space on our schedule and may have to turn down some submissions if get too many. In such an event, preference will generally be given to scholars in the Great Lakes region, per the [mission](https://greatlakesadiban.github.io/about/) of this organization.

*Graduate students note*: we have some funding to help offset at least part of your travel costs! If you would like to apply for this additional aid, there is a space to do so on the application form.

If you have any questions, please feel free to write Cameron Cross at `kchalipa` [at] `umich.edu`. We look forward to hearing from you!