---
layout: post
title:  "CfP: Great Lakes Adiban Workshop, Bloomington 2019"
date:   2019-03-18 12:00:00 -0400
categories: workshop
---

**Call for Paper Proposals: The 3^rd^ Great Lakes Adiban Workshop in Bloomington, Indiana**

The [Great Lakes Adiban Society (GLAS)](https://greatlakesadiban.github.io/) invites submissions for its third annual workshop, scheduled to take place at the University of Indiana, Bloomington, on **September 28--29, 2019**. We welcome papers that are works in progress and would benefit from extensive discussion and feedback, and especially encourage graduate students to participate.

The Society aims to provide a regional forum for scholars of Islamicate *adab*, particularly of the medieval and early modern periods, to meet and share their work. We leave our parameters of language and genre intentionally open in order to invite as wide a collaboration as can be useful, but as a group we are generally interested in the literary activity (however you wish to define 'literary') of the broad complex of premodern Muslim societies across the Eastern Hemisphere. This naturally includes the major Islamicate languages of Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and Urdu, as well as many others (Armenian, Georgian, Hebrew, Spanish, etc.) that participate in similar literary conventions.

Those who wish to participate can apply by filling out our online application at [**tinyurl.com/GLAS2019**](https://tinyurl.com/GLAS2019) by **June 21, 2019**; the form requires a paper abstract of 500 words or less. Please note that each accepted participant will be given 45 minutes to present and discuss their work; because of this, we have limited space and may have to turn down some submissions if get too many. In such an event, preference will generally be given to scholars in the Great Lakes region, per the [mission](https://greatlakesadiban.github.io/about/) of this organization. While all participants are asked to cover the costs of travel and lodging, we will provide breakfasts, lunches, and at least one dinner over the course of the workshop. Graduate students may apply for a **$250 grant** to help offset part of their expenses. 

If you have any questions, please feel free to write Cameron Cross at `kchalipa` [at] `umich.edu`. We look forward to hearing from you!