---
layout: post
title:  "Fifth Annual Workshop, 2020"
date:   2021-09-26 12:00:00 -0400
categories: workshop
---


We are pleased to announce the schedule for the 2021 Great Lakes Adiban Workshop, hosted by the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor! The workshop is free and open to all, and participants can attend either in person or via Zoom. Click [here](https://sites.lsa.umich.edu/iranian-studies/wp-content/uploads/sites/537/2021/09/GLAS2021.pdf) for the flyer (feel free to redistribute), and read on for the full schedule.

* **Dates and Times:**\
Saturday, October 9, 9:00am–3:30pm EDT\
Sunday, October 10, 9:00am–4:00pm EDT

* **Physical Location:**\
2022 South Thayer Building\
202 South Thayer St\
Ann Arbor, MI 48104 [[link to map]](https://osm.org/go/ZXAuC8eY~--?m=) (street parking readily available)

* **Remote Participation:**\
Click [**here**](https://umich.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJcqc-6upjsqHdzjLpusm7layExdRLP2pZrP) to register in advance. After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting.

### Saturday, Oct. 9

*Breakfast (8:30–9:15)*

**Reading with Islamicate theories of love and rhetoric (9:15–10:45)**\
9:15–10:00 / Jeson Ng, “Mathal and Majāz as Method in Ibn Ṭufayl’s *Ḥayy ibn Yaqẓān*”\
10:00–10:45 / Allison Kanner-Botan, “Desire and Askēsis: Sexuality, Animality, and the Figure of Majnūn in Medieval Islam” 

**Making Mughal literary culture (11:00–12:30)**\
11:00–11:45 / Nathan LM Tabor, “Association, Conduct, and Style During Delhi’s Roaring 1720s”\
11:45–12:30 / Justin Smolin, “Krishna the Magician”

*Lunch break (12:30–2:00)*

**Engaging the Arabic literary tradition and its interpreters (2:00–3:30)**
2:00–2:45 / Jennifer Tobkin, “Khālid al-Kātib: Abū Tammām’s Political, Literary, and Romantic Foil”\
2:45–3:30 / Samer Ali, “Whiteness and Orientalism: Race, Methodology, and the Problem of Nonwhite Poetry”

### Sunday, Oct. 10

*Breakfast (8:30–9:15)*

**Rethinking adab (9:15–10:45)**\
9:15–10:00 / Shounak Ghosh, “Early Modern Diplomacy: Practices and Cultures in the Persianate World, 1489–1722”\
10:00–10:45 / Pia Maria Malik, “Reading Sufi Prescriptions and Descriptions: Adab as Ritual Emulation and Performative Action”

**Function and form in the early modern Persian panegyric (11:00–12:30)**
11:00–11:45 / Shaahin Pishbin, “To Praise, Remember, and Connect: Writing Poems about Poets in Early Modern Persian Literary Culture”\
11:45–12:30 / Paul Losensky, “The Shrine Keeper’s Lament: A Manqabat for Imam Rezā by Qodsi Mashhadi”

*Lunch break (12:30–2:00)*

**(De)constructing masculinities in Persian narrative poems (2:00–2:45)**\
2:00–2:45 / Amanda Caterina Leong, “Rethinking Female Javanmardi: Nizami’s Haft Paykar as a ‘Mirror for Princesses’ ”

**Wrap-up (3:00–4:00)**

### Acknowledgements
This workshop is sponsored by the Department of Middle East Studies, the Center for Middle East and North African Studies, the Global Islamic Studies Center, Medieval and Early Modern Studies, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. 

<iframe width="425" height="350" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" src="https://www.openstreetmap.org/export/embed.html?bbox=-83.74217033386232%2C42.27872176507604%2C-83.73774468898775%2C42.281436523724835&amp;layer=mapnik&amp;marker=42.280078047599666%2C-83.73996194924985" style="border: 1px solid black"></iframe><br/><small><a href="https://www.openstreetmap.org/?mlat=42.28008&amp;mlon=-83.73996#map=18/42.28008/-83.73996">View Larger Map</a></small>

