---
layout: post
title:  "ICMS 2022 panels"
date:   2022-05-14 12:00:00 -0400
categories: conference
---

The Great Lakes Adiban hosted two panels at the [2022 International Congress on Medieval Studies](http://www.wmich.edu/medievalcongress/), in Kalamazoo, Michigan, May 9--14. The following papers were presented:

**62. Sociability between Justice and Tyranny**

- *Adab* and the Making of an Islamic World View: Normative Structures in Seventeenth-Century South Asia / Sushmita Banerjee, Univ. of Delhi
- Sociability as Performance and Protocol: A Study of Two Episodes in Mughal Diplomacy / Shounak Ghosh, Vanderbilt Univ.
- Tumult in the Rose Garden: Ambivalence and Speech Hierarchies in Late Seventeenth-Century Delhi / Nathan L. M. Tabor

**119. Medieval Islamicate Paratexts in Contexts**

- Paratextual Erasure in the Corpus of Amīr Khusraw of Delhi (d. 1325) and the Modern Reception of the Persian Lyric Tradition / Shaahin Pishbin, Univ. of Chicago
- Sliver of the Text: Catchwords as Paratextual Elements in the Islamic Manuscript Tradition / Nimet İpek, Sabanci Univ., Gülsüm Gülsev Şanver, Fatih Sultan Mehmet Vakif Univ.
- The Maḥmūdīyah: The Institutional and Intellectual History of a Fifteenth-Century Egyptian Library / Kyle Wynter-Stoner, Univ. of Chicago

---

Although not officially sponsored by GLAS, the "Paratexts" topic brought in so many papers that a second panel on the same topic was convened:

**71. Framing Texts in the Islamicate World**

- The Fragments of one Judeo-Arabic Qurʾān of the Firkovich Collection: The Holy Islamic Book in a Jewish Milieu / Pavel V. Basharin, Russian State Univ. for the Humanities
- Indo-Persian Epigraphs: A Study of Paratextual Features of Ali AdilShah I (1558--79) / Muntazir Ali Ali, Archaeological Survey of India
