---
layout: post
title:  "CfP: GLAS Workshop 2022"
date:   2022-06-20 12:00:00 -0400
categories: cfp
---

The [Great Lakes Adiban Society (GLAS)](https://greatlakesadiban.github.io/) invites submissions for its sixth annual workshop, scheduled to take place at the University of Chicago on **October 1–2, 2022**. We welcome works in progress that would benefit from extensive discussion and feedback, and especially encourage graduate students to participate.

The Society aims to provide a regional forum for scholars of Islamicate *adab*, particularly of the medieval and early modern periods, to meet and share their work. We leave our parameters of language and genre intentionally open in order to invite as wide a collaboration as can be useful, but as a group we are generally interested in the literary production of the broad complex of premodern Muslim societies across the Eastern Hemisphere. This naturally includes the major Islamicate languages of Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and Urdu, as well as many others (Armenian, Kurdish, Georgian, Hebrew, Spanish, etc.) that participate in similar literary conventions.

Those who wish to participate can apply by filling out our [online application](https://forms.gle/dVA3hgpNAxzUsFhE6) by **July 30, 2022**. Please note that each accepted participant will be given 45 minutes to present and discuss their work; because of this, we have limited space and may have to turn down some submissions if we receive too many. In such an event, preference will generally be given to graduate students, junior scholars based in the Great Lakes region, and works in progress. All participants should plan to cover the costs of travel and lodging, but graduate students should note that we may (funding permitting) be able to offer small grants to help offset these expenses; we should know more by early August, and all applicants can expect to hear back from us by then. The application will ask you to specify if your preferred format is online or in-person. <u>We are prioritizing in-person participation in our program, but will accommodate a limited number of virtual presentations</u>.

If you have any questions, please feel free to email us at greatlakesadibansociety@gmail.com. We look forward to hearing from you!