---
layout: post
title:  "CfP: GLAS Workshop 2024"
date:   2024-06-05 12:00:00 -0400
categories: cfp
---

The [Great Lakes Adiban Society (GLAS)](https://greatlakesadiban.github.io/) invites submissions for its seventh annual workshop, scheduled to take place in Ann Arbor, Michigan, on **October 19--20, 2024**. We welcome works in progress that would benefit from extensive discussion and feedback, and especially encourage graduate students to participate.

The Society aims to provide a regional forum for scholars of Islamicate *adab*, particularly of the medieval and early modern periods, to meet and share their work. We leave our parameters of language and genre intentionally open in order to invite as wide a collaboration as can be useful, but as a group we are generally interested in the literary production of the broad complex of premodern Muslim societies across the Eastern Hemisphere. This naturally includes the major Islamicate languages of Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and Urdu, as well as many others (Armenian, Kurdish, Georgian, Hebrew, Spanish, etc.) that participate in similar literary conventions.

Those who wish to participate can apply by filling out our [online application](https://forms.gle/y7L9fPC5SqjNd6X37) by **August 19, 2024**. Please note that each accepted participant will be given 45 minutes to present and discuss their work; because of this, we have limited space and may have to turn down some submissions if we receive too many. In such an event, preference will generally be given to graduate students, junior scholars based in the Great Lakes region, and works in progress. By default, all participants should plan to cover their own costs; however, graduate students may apply for financial support to cover travel and lodging expenses.

All applicants can expect to hear back from us by late August, and we plan to have the schedule finalized by mid September.

If you have any questions, please feel free to email us at <greatlakesadibansociety@gmail.com>. We look forward to hearing from you!
